# Objective

NegICC is a project for creating ICC profiles for color negatives. The main
objective of the tool is to have consistent colors for images of negative
film taken with a digital camera.

The ICC profiles created should have the following properties:
* Allow color balance adjustments
* Produces netural color which allows further adjustments
* Can be used with commonly available photo editting tools

# Introduction

An ICC profile alone is insufficient to gurantee consistency from frame to
frame. You need good color separation from the captured images. In order to
accomplish this you can refer to this Google [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OrmYLJbnluGod663s_0ZrWyX9wF_R-uxLu4libq2c2U/edit#heading=h.g6xkp75rwj2t) that I created.

After good color separation is archived we can apply an ICC profile to the
captured linear images to map to a well known color space. In the case of
ICC it is CIE XYZ chromatically adapted to D50 illuminant. This allows the
image with this profile to be mapped to other color space for further
editting.

The profiles created by NegICC is not meant to be a color space and not
suitable for general edditing. They are used for correcting the curves of
the color channels and to map to the CIE XYZ.

There are three profiles generated by NegICC:
* Curve + cLUT ICC V2 Profile
* Curve + Matrix ICC V4 Profile
* Matrix + Curve + cLUT V4 Profile

The purpose of the curve is to turn a negative image into a 'positive' one
with RGB values linear to the original luminance values. The way to
accomplish this is by correcting for the gray scale patches on a reflective
IT8 target. Using the digital camera setup described in the document above
we can estimate that the R channel should have gamma of -2 and G channel
should have gamma of -1.33 and B channel of gamma -1.42 for example. These
values are greatly dependent on the film, light, camera and filter
combination.

The cLUT or matrix is to map the resultant linerized RGB values into XYZ
values. cLUT usually is more accurate but could cause clipping and hence
not ideal for photo editting. Matrix is much less accurate but is more
robust for editting.

The matrix in the third profile is a crosstalk correction matrix to account
for crosstalk between RGB channels of the digital sensor when capturing the
image. This is a property that is intrinsic to the camera and is not
dependent on the film or light used. This matrix is not suitable to be
encoded in the ICC profile. This is because color negatives need to be
color balance adjusted and RAW developers modifies the signal before the
ICC profile, which would interfere with the crosstalk correction process.

Hence the process of using the profiles should be:
1. Use a RAW developer (e.g. dcraw) to output a linear image.
2. Apply crosstalk correction matrix computed. Using ImageMagick for example.
3. Add (but not convert using) the cLUT or matric ICC profile to image from step 2.

Included in this repo is data files from Ektar100 film exposed with a
IT8 target under 5400K sunlight and scanned using a Nikon Z7 digital camera
with a Edmund Optics #87-254 triband filter. The crosstalk correction matrix
is estimated by additionally scanning with red, blue and green bandpass filters.

The IT8 target is measured using a Konica Minolta CS100A spot colorimeter and
the readings are also included in this repo.

The RGB curves are estimated using a Pchip spline curve interpolation. And the
resultant crosstalk corrected and 'positive' values are then fed into ArgyllCMS
to compute the cLUT and color matrix. The avg error is about 0.87 and 7.2 (over
100) respectively.

# Requirements

* Python 3
* ArgyllCMS
* OpenCV
* Numpy
* Scipy
* scikit-learn
* lcms2

# Usage

All the steps are programmed in the Makefile. Running make will build the 
ICC profiles.

```
make all
```

# More details

Please see the code in build_prof.py and make_icc.c for more details.